The Prayer to Orgyen Rinpoche, that 'Invokes the Heart of his Wisdom Mind'
by Pawo Lerab Tsal

chok dü gyalwa kün gyi ngowo nyi
Embodiment of all Victorious Ones, throughout the whole of space and time,
sangye shyen lé tukjé trinlé nyur
Your compassion and your actions swifter than any other buddha,
bö kham kyongwar shyal gyi shyepa yi
You who vowed to care for the land of Tibet,
orgyen rinpoche la solwa deb
Orgyen Rinpoche, to you I pray!

zömé dungshuk drakpö nying né bö
I call out to you with my heart, with a yearning that is hard to bear,
mingön ying né tukjé chen gyi zik
Look on me, with eyes of compassion, from your invisible realm of space.
nyikma nga dö ta la tukpé tsé
Now that this final age of the five degenerations has arrived,
yullha yul pü jungpö shul zung na
When local deities are usurped by jungpo demons,
shyidak né su khö chik pema jung
Restore them to their rightful place, O Lotus-born.

nak chok mi dang dré dü kha dar na
When evil human beings, spirits and demons are on the rise,
karchok ukyung dzö chik pema jung
Encourage the good and urge them onwards, O Lotus-born.
chökyong nam kyi damcha tang gyur na
When the dharmapālas forsake their sacred pledge,
damtsik chakgyé ching shik pema jung
Bind them with the seal of the samaya, O Lotus-born.

dammé shi dré barché tsam gyur na
When ghosts of the dead, devoid of samaya, start to make obstacles,
dré gö dam la tok chik pema jung
Subdue such untamed spirits; bring them under your control, O Lotus-born.
kyendrö shé gyü gek kyi lab gyur na
When the minds of living beings are influenced by forces that cause obstruction,
khatrol gek tsok trö chik pema jung
Separate them, and drive out all the obstacle-makers, O Lotus-born.

mön lok damsi ten la barchö na
When damsi demons, with perverted aspirations, impede the teachings,
drakstal shuk kyi drol chik pema jung
Liberate them with fierce and wrathful force, O Lotus-born.
gyal dré gongpö bö kham pungwa na
When the gongpo chiefs of the gyaldré spirits wreak destruction on Tibet,
tutob nüpé tul chik pema jung
Subjugate them with the might of your power and strength, O Lotus-born.

ta shyi mak gi tsön kha dangwa na
When the armies of neighbouring lands take up weapons against us,
tamak dü truk dok chik pema jung
Turn back the turmoil of war and invasion, O Lotus-born.
lhasin mamö dalyam tibpa na
When epidemics due to gods, rākṣasas and mamos multiply,
tukjé men gyi sö shik pema jung
Heal them with the medicine of your compassion, O Lotus-born.

drokpar chuk nyé yulpar lonyé na
When livestock come to grief and farmers suffer bad harvests,
dru nor longchö tsol chik pema jung
Grant us grain and resources and wealth, O Lotus-born.
sa yi chü nyam kyendrö yang nyam na
When the vital nutrition of the earth is depleted, and the spirit of abundance among living
beings fails,
chü yang jin chen pob chik pema jung
Recharge their vitality and prosperity with your blessing, O Lotus-born.

ten dang tendzin dé dang chepa nam
Make the teachings and holders of the teachings
dar shying gyepar dzö chik pema jung
Spread and increase in number, O Lotus-born.
chömé dak sok khorwar khyampa na
When I and others, bereft of Dharma, wander in saṃsāra,
dechen shying du drong shik pema jung
Lead us to the heaven of Great Bliss, O Lotus-born.

ta gom chöpa golsar chuk gyur na
When our View, Meditation and Action go astray,
döndam rang ngotrö chik pema jung
Make us realize the ultimate as our true nature, O Lotus-born.
di dang chima bardor tamché du
In this life, the next and in the bardo state,
dralmé tukjé zung shik pema jung
Never leave me, but hold me with your compassion, O Lotus-born.
dorna dukngal nyé tsok chi jung yang
When I face suffering or harm of any kind,
taktu tukjé kyob shik pema jung
Let your compassion protect me always, O Lotus-born.
om ah hung benza guru pema siddhi hung
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra guru padma siddhi hūṃ

This prayer to Orgyen Rinpoche, one that invokes him and is appropriate to this day and age,
was composed by Pawo Lerab Tsal (Cheyol Rigdzin Chenmo) at Lhundrup Teng in Dergé, following
the instructions of Kyabgön Rinpoche.

| Rigpa Translations, 2004